## The implementation of the prediction method presented in the study Furman et al. 2013
In the study by Furman et al. (2013) there were presented 3 models predictive of the influenza vaccination response. The models were developed using the elastic net algorithm in a fivefold cross-validation setup. There were selected 9 relevant immune features by the algorithm for the first model, which included the age of the subjects, the geometric mean of the pre-vaccination antibody titers, as well as gene modules and cell subset frequencies. For the second model presented in the study all immune features were excluded and age alone was used to predict the antibody response to influenza vaccination. Lastly, the age was excluded from the list of candidate features, which allowed for the identification of a set of additional immune features compared to the first model. It was unfortunately not possible to obtain the code used for building the prediction models presented in this study. However, as the second model solely relied on the age of the subjects to predict the influenza vaccine response, it was deemed possible to reproduce this model. Therefore, the age of the subjects was used to predict the vaccine-induced antibody response. In the original study there was an expected directionality of an inverse relationship between age and the vaccine-induced antibody response. This was assessed from the fact that age had a large negative regression coefficient when included as a predictor in the elastic net models. 
