## The implementation of the prediction methods presented in the study by Avey et al. 2017

Study 1 - Avey 2017:
From the multi-cohort study, conducted by Avey et al. 2017 [51], four prediction methods were selected, a 9-gene signature with significantly increased expression in influenza high responders, and 3 blood transcription modules (BTMs) [52] that were significantly different between high and low responders. The 3 BTMs were BCR signaling (M54), Platelet activation (III) (M42), and Inflammatory response (M33). There was also presented a 6-gene signature with significantly reduced expression in high responders and 8 other BTMs, however, the performance of these were either not validated or significant in a validation cohort in the original study. All genes in the gene signature and gene modules were identified in the CMI-PB 2020 and 2021 gene expression datasets and are presented in Supplementary Table S1. In the original study the geometric mean of the gene signature was utilized to classify vaccine responders. For the BTMs the module intensity, calculated as the average gene expression of the genes in the modules, was used to predict the antibody response classes. Since this was a multi-cohort study, both microarray and RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) data were utilized. The RNA-seq data was normalized with the variance stabilizing transformation (VST) from DESeq. As the original DESeq package has been deprecated, the gene expression data from the CMI-PB datasets was preprocessed with VST from DESeq2. There was an expected directionality for the prediction methods presented in this study, meaning greater scores were obtained for high responders for the 9-gene signature and the 3 BTMs. This was deduced from the figures in the original manuscript.
