## The implementation of the prediction methods presented in the study by Kotliarov et al. 2020

The study by Kotliarov et al. 2020 [30] presented three baseline blood transcriptional signatures (TGSig, SLE-Sig, and IFN-I-DCact), which were predictive of antibody responses to the YF and influenza vaccines and correlated with the disease activity of subject with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The genes included in these gene signatures are presented in Supplementary Table S3. In the paper, it was hypothesized that there exist common baseline determinants that contribute to the responsiveness to both vaccines and autoimmunity. The signatures associated with SLE were therefore also tested for their predictive power of the Tdap vaccine response. All genes from the transcriptional signatures could be identified in the CMI-PB 2020 and 2021 gene expression datasets. However, as the gene expression data for this study was microarray data, it was normalized with the microarray-specific robust multichip average (RMA) method [53]. Therefore, there was no obvious choice for gene expression normalization. Instead, the TPM and DESeq2 VST normalizations were tested for the CMI-PB RNA-seq gene expression data, and the results were compared. Although the results were not very different, the DESeq2 VST normalization provided slightly better results.  As in the original study a gene set-based signature score was calculated to predict the antibody response to Tdap vaccination. The signature score was calculated by averaging the z score transformed expression values of the signature genes. From the manuscript figures of the original paper, it was deduced that there was an expected directionality of high responders obtaining higher gene signature scores.
