## The implementation of the prediction methods presented in the study by Iulio et al. 2021
A total of 14 transcriptional signatures were presented as predictive models of vaccine responses or disease-state post pathogen challenge in the study by Iolio et al. [54]. The gene signatures, termed transfer signatures, were developed for a given dataset by selecting the 50 top-classifying genes from 148 gene signatures obtained from the literature when training a random forest (RF) model on the dataset. Since 14 training datasets were utilized in the study, there were hence derived 14 transfer signatures by this methodology. Of the 14 training datasets, 4 were pre-vaccination datasets. Therefore, only the 4 transfer signatures developed for these pre-vaccine datasets were deemed relevant and evaluated in this comparative study. The transfer signatures were named after the training dataset for which they were developed: HBV pre-vaccine, Influenza pre-vaccine F (Female dataset),  Influenza pre-vaccine M (Male dataset),  and TB pre-vaccine. It should be noted that the TB pre-vaccine training dataset was obtained from a study on TB vaccination in rhesus macaques. The RNA-seq gene expression count data were preprocessed as described in the original study. First, only genes that had 20 reads in at least 10% of the samples were kept for further analysis. The count data were further normalized for sequencing depth by the reads per million (RPM) calculation, which was subsequently log10 transformed where a pseudo count of 10e-7 was added to all RPM values. Out of the 50 genes contained in each of the four transfer signatures, 47, 39, 42, and 47 genes had 20 reads in at least 10% of the samples in the CMI-PB 2020 RNA-seq gene expression. For the CMI-PB 2021 dataset it was respectively 46, 40, 42 and 46 genes from the transfer signatures that were above the cut-off threshold. The identified genes and the genes in the original transfer signatures are presented in Supplementary Table S5. To evaluate the transfer signatures a gene set score was calculated. Since there was not a gene set score in the original study, the gene set score presented in section X.X Calculation of gene signature scores was utilized. Although the gene signature calculation expects TPM normalized gene expression, best results were obtained with the preprocessing steps presented in the original study. There was no expected directionality of the transfer signatures presented in the original study, as the performance of these were evaluated with an unsupervised clustering method.
